## How to Define a `tfvars` File and Import It in a Terraform Configuration



1. Create a `test_variables` subfolder here and do the following. 

Create a file named `variables.tf` with the following content to define the variables you will use in your configuration:

```hcl
variable "vm_name" {
  description = "The name of the VM"
  type        = string
}

variable "vm_password" {
  description = "The admin password for the VM"
  type        = string
}
```

Run `terraform init` and for each following step run `terraform apply` to see the result. 

2. Create a tfvars File

Next, create a file named `terraform.tfvars` to specify the values for the variables you defined in variables.tf. Ensure this file is in the same directory as your Terraform configuration files.

```hcl
vm_name     = "exampleVM"
vm_password = "SecurePassword123!"
```
Feel free to change the password. 

> Note: Besides `terraform.tfvars` it will work in any file name ending with `.auto.tfvars`.

3.  Import the tfvars File into Your Terraform Configuration

By default, Terraform automatically loads all files in the same directory that end with `.tfvars` or `.tfvars.json`. If you named your file terraform.tfvars, there's no need for an explicit import statement. However, if you want to use a different file name or have multiple tfvars files, you can specify the file to load with the -var-file flag when running Terraform commands:

```bash
$ terraform apply -var-file="custom.tfvars"
```


4. Print Variable Values Optional]

If you wish to print out the values of your variables, you can use the output definitions in Terraform. Add the following to a file (e.g., outputs.tf):

```hcl
output "vm_name" {
  value = var.vm_name
}

output "vm_password" {
  value = var.vm_password
}
```

Of course you shouldn't output the password or push it into VCS, so delete the file again. 

5. Use the Variables in Your Terraform Configuration

In your main Terraform configuration file (e.g., main.tf), reference the variables as needed. For example:

```hcl
resource "azurerm_linux_virtual_machine" "main" {
  name                = var.vm_name
  admin_password      = var.vm_password
  // Other configuration...
}
```

## 6. Apply:

After running terraform apply, Terraform will print the values of these outputs.


```bash
$ terraform apply
```

7. Learn more [Optional]

Read the official guides:

https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/sensitive-variables

https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/locals


[Next lesson =>](./04._Solve_Security_issue.md)