

## Workspaces

Now that we have initialized Terraform let's explore workspaces. 

An easy way to explain them to programmers is that they can be compared branches in git since they both create an isolated environment that one can switch contexts between. 

Workspaces allow us to switch between different isolated cloud sandboxes. 

1. First, just notice the options available to us:

``` bash
$ terraform workspace
```

2. We would like to create a new `dev` workspace so we will run:

```bash
$ terraform workspace new <workspace_name>
```

You will automaically be switched to your new workspace. 

> Note: If you find <> with some text in between in a code snippet that know that this is a placeholder for a variable value. You should replace it. Otherwise a workspace by the name of <worskpace_name> will be created, which isn't what the assignment calls for.

3. Task: Go back to the default workspace. Try to figure out how by yourself:

<details> 
  <summary>Can you complete the task without the hint?</summary>

        $ terraform workspace select default
        
</details>

4. You can always list all workspaces to gain an overview:

```bash
$ terraform workspace list
```

Note: The `workspace list` commands outputs an empty line at the end which is not indicative of an empty no-named workspace existing. It just outputs an additional empty line. 

5. Look at the output of `terraform workspace list`. Where are you right now and how can you tell?

<details> 
  <summary>Hint</summary>

    Where you are dpeends but you can tell by the asterix (*) to the left of the name.
</details>

6. Create a workspace named `test`.

<details> 
  <summary>How many worskpaces should you have by now?</summary>
    To find out count them: 

    $ terraform workspace list
    
    Answer: 3.
</details>

7. Create a workspace named after yourself. 

<details> 
  <summary>Hint</summary>
    
        $ terraform workspace new <your_name_here>

</details>

8. Reflect: Why do you think workspaces are considered useful?

<details> 
  <summary>Hint</summary>
   A partial hint has already been given through the workspace names. It allows you to create different sandboxes.
</details>

9. Delete the `test` and `dev` workspaces. 

<details> 
  <summary>Try to figure out how by yourself!</summary>

        $ terraform workspace delete <workspace_name>
    
</details>


10. Reflect further on the usefulness of workspaces.

Workspaces are used to isolate states. We have started provisioning resources yet, so there is no state to look at. 

If there was a  state then they would exist in the `terraform.tfstate` in the `terraform.tfstate.d` directory. 

When we switch a workspace then this file will be replaced to the one relevant to that particular workspace. 

It's all cached locally. [(Unfortunately)](../00._Theory/the_state_file_problem.md)


**Moral**: I started out by comparing workspaces with git branches becauses they both focus on context switching between isolated environments. Let me end by bringing up their differences. Terraform workspaces are not for a diverging codebase but for different states. The concept of merging nad reconciliation does not exist in Terraform. Workspaces in Terraform is only focused on isolating state.
 

11. Inspect the workspace relevant files:

1. `.terraform/environment`: Stores the name of the current workspace.
2. `terraform.tfstate`: The state file for the current workspace, located in `terraform.tfworkspace` directory for non-default workspaces.
3. `terraform.tfstate.backup`: A backup of the last known state file.
4. `.terraform/terraform.tfstate`: A hidden state file used internally by Terraform for workspace management.


[Next Lesson =>](./02._Getting_A_Provisioner.md)



