## 1. Let's start by specifying our provider to be azurerm. 

In `main.tf` (which should still be empty) add the following:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      source  = "hashicorp/azurerm"
      version = "=3.0.0"
       }
  }
}
```

## 4. Try to format the code with . The following command will format your Terraform files to ensure that they follow Terraform's canonical format and style

```bash
$ terraform fmt
```

Did you have the file open and did you notice the result? If not try again by copying the snippet into the file and rerun the command.


<details> 
  <summary>What is supposed to happen?</summary>
   
    I intentionally mis-indented a closing curly brace. When running the command you should notice that the code is formated to fix the indentation.
</details>

Note: Formatting does not validate the correctness or internal consistency of the config. 

## 5. Let's add a resource group. 

Find the snippet that relates to resource group and paste it into `main.tf`. 

But change `West Europe` to `North Europe` since it is closer in proximity. 

Advice: Do note that there are [discrepensies in availability of services in Azure depending on region](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/global-infrastructure/geographies/#geographies). 

Personal anecdote: The most hair-pulling time sinks in relation to Azure have been when trying to create a service in a region that doesn't support it, but they will not inform you that this is the problem. Always try another region if nothing else works. It might fix the problem. 

<details> 
  <summary>Solution</summary>
   
   Add this to `main.tf`:
  ```terraform
  resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
    name     = "example-resources"
    location = "`North Europe"
  }
  ```
</details>

## 2. Let's try to create the resource group - pre step

You should've already ran `terraform init` but in case you haven't, rerun it. 

## 3. Why `terraform validate`?

This step is [optional] when working with Terraform but still useful because `terraform validate`:

* ensures that all required arguments have been defined

* validates the internal consistency of the entire configuration setup

However, it does not validate against the state, in fact, validate can be run against any uninitialized project. 


## 4. [Optional] Let's run the validate command:

```bash
$ terraform validate
```


The expected result is:

```bash
Success! The configuration is valid.
```

Let's apply (which will create the resource group):

```bash
$ terraform apply
```

## 5. Error handling

Uh oh. Running `terraform apply` should result in the following error:

```
│ Error: Invalid provider configuration
│ 
│ Provider "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/azurerm" requires explicit configuration. Add a provider block to the root module and configure the provider's
│ required arguments as described in the provider documentation.
│ 
╵
╷
│ Error: Insufficient features blocks
│ 
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ 
│ At least 1 "features" blocks are required.
```

I should create the block that conains the `azurerm` provider config:

```hcl
provider "azurerm" {
}
```

## 6. Plan ahead.

Let's try again but let's take it back a step. Let's not jump straight to apply. 

We can run:

```bash
$ terraform plan
```
Uh oh, it fails as well. But this time the error is different:

```
╷
│ Error: Insufficient features blocks
│ 
│   on main.tf line 15, in provider "azurerm":
│   15: provider "azurerm" {
│ 
│ At least 1 "features" blocks are required.
╵
```

## 7. Spot the error. Can you fix it?

<details> 
  <summary>Solution</summary>
   
   Add an empty features block to the provider config block.

   The entire provider config block for reference:

  ```terraform
    provider "azurerm" {
      features {}
    }
  ```
</details>

#### Step back: Why are we doing all this?

This section is to motivate why we are commiting mistakes on purpose. The above case is actually based on a real issue I had to solve. 

I ran into the above problem (missing features block) by following online videos of a decently recenct video tutorial and I couldn't understand why their code worked, but didn't work for me. 

It appears that the feautures block was introduced only after version`2.0` of `azurerm` and that it wasn't required previously. 

My goal is always to help you build an understanding of the code and also a way to approach debugging in Terraform which is notoriously difficult. 

[Next lesson =>](./04._The_Value.md)