## Let's try to create the resource group

## 1. By now you should have the following in `main.tf`:

<details> 
  <summary>Expand Me</summary>

  ```terraform
terraform {
    required_providers {
        azurerm = {
        source  = "hashicorp/azurerm"
        version = "=3.0.0"
        }
    }
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
    name = "example-resources"
    location = "North Europe"
}

provider "azurerm" {
    features {}
}
  ```
</details>

## 2. Run `terraform plan`

It should suceed and promise to create 1 new resource. Look for this line in the output:

```
Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

## 3. What happened?

Multiple files and folders were created. 

Because this repository uses a Terraform template as its `.gitignore`, you should be able to differentiate between what should be pushed and what ought not. 

* The `terraform.tfstate.d` folder should contain another folder with the name of the workspace that you are in. Perhaps the one you created?

* The `.terraform` hidden folder contains:

    * `environment`: a file that only contains just the line `default` for now. We will discuss it in the next Terraform project. 

    * `providers`: which has the provider code specific to your OS. Inside of the folder named after my specific OS,`darwin_arm64`, I see a binary file named `terraform-provider-azurerm_v3.0.0_x5`. 

#### Life cycle of the `terraform-provider-azurerm_v3.0.0_x5` provider file 



* `terraform init`: Is when it is downloaded. 
* `terraform plan`: Fetches information from the API about the current state of resources in Azure in order to generate a plan. 
* `terraform apply`: Does a repitition of the plan phase but additionally does CRUD to the API. 


This should enlighten us as to why `terraform validate` didn't complain despite of our faulty provider configuration block instantiation at one point. 


## 4. Let's not!

We won't run `terraform apply` in this project. 

What it would do is create the resource group in the cloud. We will be provisioning resources for real in the other Terraform projects. 

Instead, let's look at the language (`hcl`) that we are using. 

[Next Lesson =>](./06._HCL_As_A_Language.md)