## Static IP Adress

1. What is dynamic / static IP address?

Note this line in `main.tf`:

```hcl
private_ip_address_allocation = "Dynamic"
```

**Dynamic IP**: Automatically assigned by Azure, may change upon VM restart or redeployment.

**Static IP**: Manually assigned, doesn't change.

But this is the private IP address which is used internally in the datacenter. 

Having a static private IP address is useful for when cloud services (often in the same VPC) communicate without having to go through the public internet. 

Note that a static public IP address costs more, but it's often worth it for having a reliable IP address. 


2. Study the difference between this `main.tf` and the one from the previous example:


The current example has this added:

```hcl
resource "azurerm_public_ip" "example" {
  name                = "example-publicip"
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  allocation_method   = "Static"
}
```




3. Output the IP address. 

One option is to go to the portal and check the allocated IP address. 

An alternative is to make Terraform output the IP address. 

In `outputs.tf` add the following:

```hcl
output "example_public_ip_address" {
  value = azurerm_public_ip.example.ip_address
}
```

4. Remember to always study the snippets and their moving parts. 

In the output, where does `azurerm_public_ip`, `example`, and `ip_address` come from?

<details> 
  <summary>Solution</summary>


- `azurerm_public_ip`: Type of resource for creating a public IP address in Azure.
- `example`: Identifier name for the instance of `azurerm_public_ip` in Terraform code.
- `ip_address`: Attribute of `azurerm_public_ip` containing the assigned public IP address.
</details>


[Next lesson =>](./02._SSH_Keys.md)
